Kevin Connolly: So who are you? This is just a little bit about me. I'm academic by training. I did about 10 years in physics, research, ended up doing my PhD there, and then transitioning out into, tech industry, and I've spent basically all of my last
Kevin Connolly: 10 plus years in, I'd say smallish startups, from 10 to few hundred.
Kevin Connolly: haven't really gone outside of that scope, so that's my own bias. I just wanted to put that out there, that I'm, like, very startup-centric. I like the startup world. I'm interested in startup things, I think that's where my comments are the most pertinent in terms of direct hiring and, like.
Kevin Connolly: AI applications and the talent process in that realm, but, the last five and a half years I've been at this company, Ashby, we build an applicant tracking system in addition to all sorts of things for the talent process and HR process, so there's, like, scheduling.
Kevin Connolly: job boards, offer management, CRM for, like, the candidate database. Whole bunch of details, it's very complex under the hood, so it's a little bit more… I think one of the big things that I would maybe emphasize
Kevin Connolly: is the difference of a candidate perspective of, like, this is me applying for a job, I think I'm a good fit, versus the, talent team perspective, which is
Kevin Connolly: we got 1,500 applicants. 100 are very great. Unfortunately, we can only talk to 20. And the judgment and challenges that come with that sort of process and where AI starts to come in there in the modern,
Kevin Connolly: era,
Kevin Connolly: Let me just go ahead and go forward. So what I focus on, just a little bit more about my context, and I'll stop making it about me, but I do think a fair bit about hiring data, because I have two roles at Ashby. One, I manage the data team internally, so we do a lot of benchmark data analysis, product analysis, business analysis, that's a bit more traditional stuff, but one of our big pillars is
Kevin Connolly: Industry and recruiting trend analytics, aggregated over thousands of customers globally.
Kevin Connolly: I work closely with a lot of recruiting teams, from very reputable brands, like Snowflake and Shopify, OpenAI, all the way down to very small startups that nobody's ever heard of, that are just, like, our two- and three-person team company, so Ashby.
Kevin Connolly: meets the needs of, like, startups through enterprise scale, but I am responsible for our analytics product, that's part of it, so I act as a PM, do a lot of customer research and user research, which in this context means talking to hiring teams about how they do hiring, what they want to improve, what they're struggling with.
Kevin Connolly: And I also do hiring for my own team, so I have my hiring manager hat. I know what it's like to try and suffer the hiring challenges and various types from the inside.
Kevin Connolly: As opposed to the candidate perspective, and then naturally, everybody's thinking about AI because you have to, that's what's going on. So as a PM, I think a fair bit about AI in the role of applications and hiring and recruiting and talent acquisition.
Kevin Connolly: Just a shout out to the Talent Trends content, if you do go to our homepage, it's under resources, and we have a dedicated blog, it's called Talent Trends Reports. There's a bunch of interesting stuff in there, I'm not trying to…
Kevin Connolly: to hawk it too much, but I think some of my physics background, like, my hope for that is, like, I want it to be higher quality analysis and a little bit more generic
Kevin Connolly: company blogs, like, here's some pie charts and some bar charts, like, we've got data. It's like, I want to elevate the community, but it is geared towards, talent teams. So, like, the recruiters, they'll hiring managers, it's a little bit less of a candidate-facing
Kevin Connolly: blog, per se, but I did pick a few charts as examples where, like, candidates might want to understand the process a little bit more.